As you know, platforms are revolutionizing
the diversity of sectors.
I would say everyone.
And what I want is that you understand
well what are the benefits or differences
between a platform type model
and a traditional one.
And today what we will do is to
reinforce that knowledge by
analyzing a case.
Let’s look at the case of Jovan Talent.
And we will do it again firsthand
with the testimony of Felix Ruiz,
who is one of the artists of the
success of Before sharing with
you the conversations we have
had with Felix, I want to
give you a series of data
about Jovan Talent.
I want you to understand the company a little
bit more.
Jovan Talent is a company that is
well known for various reasons.
One of them is that it has always
been very strongly capitalized.
In several rounds of financing
it has raised around 80 million
euros and has initially had
many problems.
Despite having a lot of money,
he had a lot of trouble.
He also went on to press because
they had to dismiss people,
etc.
There have been many problems in this regard.
But it is also true that from
April 2016 Jovan Talent decides
to pivot in its business model,
decides to evolve its business model,
leave behind the previous model
and develop a new model that
has turned out to be an authentic
success.
As of April 2016, sales
are rising.
We are talking about that
currently it is trading around
6 million a month.
I will leave you with Felix and Rafa.
Felix will start by telling us the
beginnings, the first business model
of Jovan Talent and then we will
go to analyze it.
Felix, for four years you have
been dedicated 100% and body and soul
to the Jovan Talent project.
Tell us what Jovan Talent is and
approach a little more or give
us a little more detail about how
the Jovan Talent business model is.
Well, Jovan Talent is a platform
that is obviously oriented
to the employment sector.
Initially, Jovan Talent’s
idea was to be a recruitment platform,
a tool that companies would
use to hire staff or to search
for candidates, but adapted to the
new world, the world
of mobile.
Until now everything was desktop, everything
was web pages through which you
could search for candidates, but
since a few years here because obviously
the mobile has evolved
a lot and we wanted to transfer
that to a mobile application.
From there we realized that the market
was a pretty solid market already
with the products there and
it was very difficult to penetrate
and compete against the already existing
classified that at the time because
in Spain were info jobs, in the
United States was Monster and were
already very, very, very established
in the markets.
Then good, because despite that
we struggled a lot and we tried,
we tried to consolidate that same
model adapted to the mobile,
but it was very complicated.
We don’t need to go into
details of why things didn’t
work, but Felix gives us
some clue.
They tried to compete with
digital platforms like Monster or
as info jobs that already added the
supply and demand through a platform,
but the model Jovan Talen proved
not to be successful and as they
say, rectificars of wise
men and from April 2016 they
decided to pivot or evolve
their business model and Felix
will tell us.